# `createRoot`

`createRoot` creates a React root for displaying content inside a browser DOM element.

```react
createRoot(domNode, options?)
```

+ **`domNode`**: A DOM element.
+ **`options`**: An object with options for this React root.
    + optional `onCaughtError`: Callback called when React catches an error in an Error Boundary. Called with the error caught by the Error Boundary, and an errorInfo object containing the componentStack.
    + optional `onUncaughtError`: Callback called when an error is thrown and not caught by an Error Boundary. Called with the error that was thrown, and an errorInfo object containing the componentStack.
    + optional `onRecoverableError`: Callback called when React automatically recovers from errors. Called with an error React throws, and an errorInfo object containing the componentStack. Some recoverable errors may include the original error cause as error.cause.
    + optional `identifierPrefix`: A string prefix React uses for IDs generated by useId. Useful to avoid conflicts when using multiple roots on the same page.
+ **Returns**: An object with two methods: `render` and `unmount`.

**Example:**

```react
import { createRoot } from 'react-dom/client';

const domNode = document.getElementById("root");
const root = createRoot(domNode);

root.render(<App />);
```

After creating a root, you need to call `root.render` to display a react component inside of it.

### Note

+ When you want to render a piece of JSX in a different part of the DOM tree that isn't a child of your component, use `createPortal` instead of `createRoot`.
+ If your app is server-rendered, using `createRoot()` is not supported. Use `hydrateRoot()` instead.

---

## `root.render(reactNode)`

Displays JSX into the react root's browser DOM node. Note that the first time you call `root.render`, react will clear all existing HTML content inside the react root before rendering the react component into it.

+ **`reactNode`**: A react node to display. Can be JSX, or a react element constructed with `createElement()`, a string, a number, `null`, or `undefined`.

```react
root.render(<App />);
```

---

## `root.unmount()`

Unmount all the components in the root and "detach" react from the root DOM node, including removing any event handlers or state in the tree.

```react
root.unmount();
```

**Note**: Once you call `root.unmount` you cannot call `root.render` again on the same root. However, you can create a new root for the same DOM node after the previous root for that node has been umounted.

---
